modules/460-log-shipper/docs/EXAMPLES.md, before:

---
title: "The log-shipper module: examples"
description: Examples of using the log-shipper Deckhouse module. Examples of module configuration, filtering, and collecting events and logs in a Kubernetes cluster.
---

{% raw %}

## Getting logs from all cluster Pods and sending them to Loki

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLoggingConfig
metadata:
  name: all-logs
spec:
  type: KubernetesPods
  destinationRefs:
  - loki-storage
---
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLogDestination
metadata:
  name: loki-storage
spec:
  type: Loki
  loki:
    endpoint: http://loki.loki:3100
```

## Reading Pod logs from a specified namespace with a specified label and redirecting to Loki and Elasticsearch

Reading logs from `namespace=whispers` with label `app=booking` and storing them into Loki and Elasticsearch:

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLoggingConfig
metadata:
  name: whispers-booking-logs
spec:
  type: KubernetesPods
  kubernetesPods:
    namespaceSelector:
      matchNames:
        - whispers
    labelSelector:
      matchLabels:
        app: booking
  destinationRefs:
  - loki-storage
  - es-storage
---
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLogDestination
metadata:
  name: loki-storage
spec:
  type: Loki
  loki:
    endpoint: http://loki.loki:3100
---
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLogDestination
metadata:
  name: es-storage
spec:
  type: Elasticsearch
  elasticsearch:
    endpoint: http://192.168.1.1:9200
    index: logs-%F
    auth:
      strategy: Basic
      user: elastic
      password: c2VjcmV0IC1uCg==
```

## Creating a source in namespace and reading logs of all Pods in that NS with forwarding them to Loki

Namespaced pipeline - reading logs from `test-whispers` namespace (all Pods):

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: PodLoggingConfig
metadata:
  name: whispers-logs
  namespace: tests-whispers
spec:
  clusterDestinationRefs:
    - loki-storage
---
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLogDestination
metadata:
  name: loki-storage
spec:
  type: Loki
  loki:
    endpoint: http://loki.loki:3100
```

## Reading only Pods in the specified namespace and having a certain label

Read logs from Pods with label `app=booking` in namespace `test-whispers`:

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: PodLoggingConfig
metadata:
  name: whispers-logs
  namespace: tests-whispers
spec:
  labelSelector:
    matchLabels:
      app: booking
  clusterDestinationRefs:
    - loki-storage
---
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLogDestination
metadata:
  name: loki-storage
spec:
  type: Loki
  loki:
    endpoint: http://loki.loki:3100
```

## Migration from Promtail to Log-Shipper

Path `/loki/api/v1/push` has to be removed from the previously used Loki URL.

**Vector** will add this PATH automatically during working with Loki destination.

## Working with Grafana Cloud

This documentation expects that you have [created API key](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/reference/create-api-key/).

![Grafana cloud API key](../../images/460-log-shipper/grafana_cloud.png)

Firstly you should encode your token with base64.

```bash
echo -n "<YOUR-GRAFANACLOUD-TOKEN>" | base64 -w0
```

Then you can create **ClusterLogDestination**

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLogDestination
metadata:
  name: loki-storage
spec:
  loki:
    auth:
      password: PFlPVVItR1JBRkFOQUNMT1VELVRPS0VOPg==
      strategy: Basic
      user: "<YOUR-GRAFANACLOUD-USER>"
    endpoint: <YOUR-GRAFANACLOUD-URL> # For example https://logs-prod-us-central1.grafana.net or https://logs-prod-eu-west-0.grafana.net
  type: Loki
```

Now you can create PodLogginConfig or ClusterPodLoggingConfig and send logs to **Grafana Cloud**.

## Adding Loki source to Deckhouse Grafana

You can work with Loki from embedded to deckhouse Grafana. Just add [**GrafanaAdditionalDatasource**](../../modules/300-prometheus/cr.html#grafanaadditionaldatasource)

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1
kind: GrafanaAdditionalDatasource
metadata:
  name: loki
spec:
  access: Proxy
  basicAuth: false
  jsonData:
    maxLines: 5000
    timeInterval: 30s
  type: loki
  url: http://loki.loki:3100
```

## Elasticsearch < 6.X usage

For Elasticsearch < 6.0 doc_type indexing should be set.
Config should look like this:

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLogDestination
metadata:
  name: es-storage
spec:
  type: Elasticsearch
  elasticsearch:
    endpoint: http://192.168.1.1:9200
    docType: "myDocType" # Set any string here. It should not start with '_'
    auth:
      strategy: Basic
      user: elastic
      password: c2VjcmV0IC1uCg==
```

## Index template for Elasticsearch

It is possible to route logs to particular indexes based on metadata using index templating:

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLogDestination
metadata:
  name: es-storage
spec:
  type: Elasticsearch
  elasticsearch:
    endpoint: http://192.168.1.1:9200
    index: "k8s-{{ namespace }}-%F"
```

For the above example for each Kubernetes namespace a dedicated index in Elasticsearch will be created.

This feature works well combining with `extraLabels`:

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLogDestination
metadata:
  name: es-storage
spec:
  type: Elasticsearch
  elasticsearch:
    endpoint: http://192.168.1.1:9200
    index: "k8s-{{ service }}-{{ namespace }}-%F"
  extraLabels:
    service: "{{ service_name }}"
```

1. If a log message is in JSON format, the `service_name` field of this JSON document is moved to the metadata level.
2. The new metadata field `service` is used for the index template.

## Splunk integration

It is possible to send logs from Deckhouse to Splunk.

1. Endpoint must be equal to the Splunk instance name with the `8088` port and no path provided, e.g. `https://prd-p-xxxxxx.splunkcloud.com:8088`.
2. To add a token to ingest logs, go to `Setting` -> `Data inputs`, add a new `HTTP Event Collector` and copy a token.
3. Provide a Splunk index to store logs, e.g., `logs`.

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLogDestination
metadata:
  name: splunk
spec:
  type: Splunk
  splunk:
    endpoint: https://prd-p-xxxxxx.splunkcloud.com:8088
    token: xxxx-xxxx-xxxx
    index: logs
    tls:
      verifyCertificate: false
      verifyHostname: false
```

{% endraw %}
{% alert -%}
Splunk destination doesn't support pod labels for indexes. Consider exporting necessary labels with the `extraLabels` option.
{%- endalert %}
{% raw %}

```yaml
extraLabels:
  pod_label_app: '{{ pod_labels.app }}'
```

## Simple Logstash example

To send logs to Logstash, the `tcp` input should be configured on the Logstash instance side, and its codec should be set to `json`.

An example of the minimal Logstash configuration:

```hcl
input {
  tcp {
    port => 12345
    codec => json
  }
}
output {
  stdout { codec => json }
}
```

An example of the `ClusterLogDestination` manifest:

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLogDestination
metadata:
  name: logstash
spec:
  type: Logstash
  logstash:
    endpoint: logstash.default:12345
```

## Collect Kubernetes Events

Kubernetes Events can be collected by log-shipper if `events-exporter` is enabled in the [extended-monitoring](../340-extended-monitoring/) module configuration.

Enable `events-exporter` by adjusting `extended-monitoring` settings:

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ModuleConfig
metadata:
  name: extended-monitoring
spec:
  version: 1
  settings:
    events:
      exporterEnabled: true
```

Apply the following `ClusterLoggingConfig` to collect logs from the `events-exporter` Pod:

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLoggingConfig
metadata:
  name: kubernetes-events
spec:
  type: KubernetesPods
  kubernetesPods:
    labelSelector:
      matchLabels:
        app: events-exporter
    namespaceSelector:
      matchNames:
      - d8-monitoring
  destinationRefs:
  - loki-storage
```

## Log filters

Users can filter logs by applying two filters:
* `labelFilter` — applies to the top-level metadata, e.g., container, namespace, or Pod name.
* `logFilter` — applies to fields of a message if it is in JSON format.

### Collect only logs of the `nginx` container

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLoggingConfig
metadata:
  name: nginx-logs
spec:
  type: KubernetesPods
  labelFilter:
  - field: container
    operator: In
    values: [nginx]
  destinationRefs:
  - loki-storage
```

### Collect logs without strings `GET /status" 200`

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLoggingConfig
metadata:
  name: all-logs
spec:
  type: KubernetesPods
  destinationRefs:
  - loki-storage
  labelFilter:
  - field: message
    operator: NotRegex
    values:
    - .*GET /status" 200$
```

### Audit of kubelet actions

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLoggingConfig
metadata:
  name: kubelet-audit-logs
spec:
  type: File
  file:
    include:
    - /var/log/kube-audit/audit.log
  logFilter:
  - field: userAgent  
    operator: Regex
    values: ["kubelet.*"]
  destinationRefs:
  - loki-storage
```

### Deckhouse system logs

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLoggingConfig
metadata:
  name: system-logs
spec:
  type: File
  file:
    include:
    - /var/log/syslog
  labelFilter:
  - field: message
    operator: Regex
    values:
    - .*d8-kubelet-forker.*
    - .*containerd.*
    - .*bashible.*
    - .*kernel.*
  destinationRefs:
  - loki-storage
```

{% endraw %}
{% alert -%}
If you need logs from only one or from a small group of a Pods, try to use the kubernetesPods settings to reduce the number of reading filed. Do not use highly grained filters to read logs from a single pod.
{%- endalert %}
{% raw %}

## Collect logs from production namespaces using the namespace label selector option

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLoggingConfig
metadata:
  name: production-logs
spec:
  type: KubernetesPods
  kubernetesPods:
    namespaceSelector:
      labelSelector:
        matchLabels:
          environment: production
  destinationRefs:
  - loki-storage
```

## Exclude Pods or namespaces with a label

There is a preconfigured label to exclude particular namespaces or Pods: `log-shipper.deckhouse.io/exclude=true`.
It can help to stop collecting logs from a namespace or Pod without changing global configurations.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: test-namespace
  labels:
    log-shipper.deckhouse.io/exclude: "true"
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: test-deployment
spec:
  ...
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        log-shipper.deckhouse.io/exclude: "true"
```

{% endraw %}

Commit message:

[log-shipper] New socket destination (#8870) (#8905)
Signed-off-by: m.nabokikh <maksim.nabokikh@flant.com>
Signed-off-by: Artem Kladov <6360800+z9r5@users.noreply.github.com>
Signed-off-by: Artem Kladov <artem.kladov@flant.com>
Signed-off-by: Maksim Nabokikh <max.nabokih@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Maksim Nabokikh <max.nabokih@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Artem Kladov <6360800+z9r5@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Artem Kladov <artem.kladov@flant.com>

modules/460-log-shipper/docs/EXAMPLES.md, after:

---
title: "The log-shipper module: examples"
description: Examples of using the log-shipper Deckhouse module. Examples of module configuration, filtering, and collecting events and logs in a Kubernetes cluster.
---

{% raw %}

## Getting logs from all cluster Pods and sending them to Loki

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLoggingConfig
metadata:
  name: all-logs
spec:
  type: KubernetesPods
  destinationRefs:
  - loki-storage
---
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLogDestination
metadata:
  name: loki-storage
spec:
  type: Loki
  loki:
    endpoint: http://loki.loki:3100
```

## Reading Pod logs from a specified namespace with a specified label and redirecting to Loki and Elasticsearch

Reading logs from `namespace=whispers` with label `app=booking` and storing them into Loki and Elasticsearch:

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLoggingConfig
metadata:
  name: whispers-booking-logs
spec:
  type: KubernetesPods
  kubernetesPods:
    namespaceSelector:
      matchNames:
        - whispers
    labelSelector:
      matchLabels:
        app: booking
  destinationRefs:
  - loki-storage
  - es-storage
---
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLogDestination
metadata:
  name: loki-storage
spec:
  type: Loki
  loki:
    endpoint: http://loki.loki:3100
---
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLogDestination
metadata:
  name: es-storage
spec:
  type: Elasticsearch
  elasticsearch:
    endpoint: http://192.168.1.1:9200
    index: logs-%F
    auth:
      strategy: Basic
      user: elastic
      password: c2VjcmV0IC1uCg==
```

## Creating a source in namespace and reading logs of all Pods in that NS with forwarding them to Loki

Namespaced pipeline - reading logs from `test-whispers` namespace (all Pods):

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: PodLoggingConfig
metadata:
  name: whispers-logs
  namespace: tests-whispers
spec:
  clusterDestinationRefs:
    - loki-storage
---
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLogDestination
metadata:
  name: loki-storage
spec:
  type: Loki
  loki:
    endpoint: http://loki.loki:3100
```

## Reading only Pods in the specified namespace and having a certain label

Read logs from Pods with label `app=booking` in namespace `test-whispers`:

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: PodLoggingConfig
metadata:
  name: whispers-logs
  namespace: tests-whispers
spec:
  labelSelector:
    matchLabels:
      app: booking
  clusterDestinationRefs:
    - loki-storage
---
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLogDestination
metadata:
  name: loki-storage
spec:
  type: Loki
  loki:
    endpoint: http://loki.loki:3100
```

## Migration from Promtail to Log-Shipper

Path `/loki/api/v1/push` has to be removed from the previously used Loki URL.

**Vector** will add this PATH automatically during working with Loki destination.

## Working with Grafana Cloud

This documentation expects that you have [created API key](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/reference/create-api-key/).

![Grafana cloud API key](../../images/460-log-shipper/grafana_cloud.png)

Firstly you should encode your token with base64.

```bash
echo -n "<YOUR-GRAFANACLOUD-TOKEN>" | base64 -w0
```

Then you can create **ClusterLogDestination**

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLogDestination
metadata:
  name: loki-storage
spec:
  loki:
    auth:
      password: PFlPVVItR1JBRkFOQUNMT1VELVRPS0VOPg==
      strategy: Basic
      user: "<YOUR-GRAFANACLOUD-USER>"
    endpoint: <YOUR-GRAFANACLOUD-URL> # For example https://logs-prod-us-central1.grafana.net or https://logs-prod-eu-west-0.grafana.net
  type: Loki
```

Now you can create PodLogginConfig or ClusterPodLoggingConfig and send logs to **Grafana Cloud**.

## Adding Loki source to Deckhouse Grafana

You can work with Loki from embedded to deckhouse Grafana. Just add [**GrafanaAdditionalDatasource**](../../modules/300-prometheus/cr.html#grafanaadditionaldatasource)

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1
kind: GrafanaAdditionalDatasource
metadata:
  name: loki
spec:
  access: Proxy
  basicAuth: false
  jsonData:
    maxLines: 5000
    timeInterval: 30s
  type: loki
  url: http://loki.loki:3100
```

## Elasticsearch < 6.X usage

For Elasticsearch < 6.0 doc_type indexing should be set.
Config should look like this:

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLogDestination
metadata:
  name: es-storage
spec:
  type: Elasticsearch
  elasticsearch:
    endpoint: http://192.168.1.1:9200
    docType: "myDocType" # Set any string here. It should not start with '_'
    auth:
      strategy: Basic
      user: elastic
      password: c2VjcmV0IC1uCg==
```

## Index template for Elasticsearch

It is possible to route logs to particular indexes based on metadata using index templating:

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLogDestination
metadata:
  name: es-storage
spec:
  type: Elasticsearch
  elasticsearch:
    endpoint: http://192.168.1.1:9200
    index: "k8s-{{ namespace }}-%F"
```

For the above example for each Kubernetes namespace a dedicated index in Elasticsearch will be created.

This feature works well combining with `extraLabels`:

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLogDestination
metadata:
  name: es-storage
spec:
  type: Elasticsearch
  elasticsearch:
    endpoint: http://192.168.1.1:9200
    index: "k8s-{{ service }}-{{ namespace }}-%F"
  extraLabels:
    service: "{{ service_name }}"
```

1. If a log message is in JSON format, the `service_name` field of this JSON document is moved to the metadata level.
2. The new metadata field `service` is used for the index template.

## Splunk integration

It is possible to send logs from Deckhouse to Splunk.

1. Endpoint must be equal to the Splunk instance name with the `8088` port and no path provided, e.g. `https://prd-p-xxxxxx.splunkcloud.com:8088`.
2. To add a token to ingest logs, go to `Setting` -> `Data inputs`, add a new `HTTP Event Collector` and copy a token.
3. Provide a Splunk index to store logs, e.g., `logs`.

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLogDestination
metadata:
  name: splunk
spec:
  type: Splunk
  splunk:
    endpoint: https://prd-p-xxxxxx.splunkcloud.com:8088
    token: xxxx-xxxx-xxxx
    index: logs
    tls:
      verifyCertificate: false
      verifyHostname: false
```

{% endraw %}
{% alert -%}
Splunk destination doesn't support pod labels for indexes. Consider exporting necessary labels with the `extraLabels` option.
{%- endalert %}
{% raw %}

```yaml
extraLabels:
  pod_label_app: '{{ pod_labels.app }}'
```

## Simple Logstash example

To send logs to Logstash, the `tcp` input should be configured on the Logstash instance side, and its codec should be set to `json`.

An example of the minimal Logstash configuration:

```hcl
input {
  tcp {
    port => 12345
    codec => json
  }
}
output {
  stdout { codec => json }
}
```

An example of the `ClusterLogDestination` manifest:

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLogDestination
metadata:
  name: logstash
spec:
  type: Logstash
  logstash:
    endpoint: logstash.default:12345
```

## Syslog

The following examples sets severity for the syslog messages and uses the socket destination:

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLogDestination
metadata:
  name: rsyslog
spec:
  type: Socket
  socket:
    mode: TCP
    address: 192.168.0.1:3000
    encoding: 
      codec: Syslog
  extraLabels:
    syslog.severity: "alert"
    # the request_id field should be present in the log message
    syslog.message_id: "{{ request_id }}"
```

## Collect Kubernetes Events

Kubernetes Events can be collected by log-shipper if `events-exporter` is enabled in the [extended-monitoring](../340-extended-monitoring/) module configuration.

Enable `events-exporter` by adjusting `extended-monitoring` settings:

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ModuleConfig
metadata:
  name: extended-monitoring
spec:
  version: 1
  settings:
    events:
      exporterEnabled: true
```

Apply the following `ClusterLoggingConfig` to collect logs from the `events-exporter` Pod:

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLoggingConfig
metadata:
  name: kubernetes-events
spec:
  type: KubernetesPods
  kubernetesPods:
    labelSelector:
      matchLabels:
        app: events-exporter
    namespaceSelector:
      matchNames:
      - d8-monitoring
  destinationRefs:
  - loki-storage
```

## Log filters

Users can filter logs by applying two filters:
* `labelFilter` — applies to the top-level metadata, e.g., container, namespace, or Pod name.
* `logFilter` — applies to fields of a message if it is in JSON format.

### Collect only logs of the `nginx` container

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLoggingConfig
metadata:
  name: nginx-logs
spec:
  type: KubernetesPods
  labelFilter:
  - field: container
    operator: In
    values: [nginx]
  destinationRefs:
  - loki-storage
```

### Collect logs without strings `GET /status" 200`

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLoggingConfig
metadata:
  name: all-logs
spec:
  type: KubernetesPods
  destinationRefs:
  - loki-storage
  labelFilter:
  - field: message
    operator: NotRegex
    values:
    - .*GET /status" 200$
```

### Audit of kubelet actions

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLoggingConfig
metadata:
  name: kubelet-audit-logs
spec:
  type: File
  file:
    include:
    - /var/log/kube-audit/audit.log
  logFilter:
  - field: userAgent  
    operator: Regex
    values: ["kubelet.*"]
  destinationRefs:
  - loki-storage
```

### Deckhouse system logs

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLoggingConfig
metadata:
  name: system-logs
spec:
  type: File
  file:
    include:
    - /var/log/syslog
  labelFilter:
  - field: message
    operator: Regex
    values:
    - .*d8-kubelet-forker.*
    - .*containerd.*
    - .*bashible.*
    - .*kernel.*
  destinationRefs:
  - loki-storage
```

{% endraw %}
{% alert -%}
If you need logs from only one or from a small group of a Pods, try to use the kubernetesPods settings to reduce the number of reading filed. Do not use highly grained filters to read logs from a single pod.
{%- endalert %}
{% raw %}

## Collect logs from production namespaces using the namespace label selector option

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterLoggingConfig
metadata:
  name: production-logs
spec:
  type: KubernetesPods
  kubernetesPods:
    namespaceSelector:
      labelSelector:
        matchLabels:
          environment: production
  destinationRefs:
  - loki-storage
```

## Exclude Pods or namespaces with a label

There is a preconfigured label to exclude particular namespaces or Pods: `log-shipper.deckhouse.io/exclude=true`.
It can help to stop collecting logs from a namespace or Pod without changing global configurations.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: test-namespace
  labels:
    log-shipper.deckhouse.io/exclude: "true"
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: test-deployment
spec:
  ...
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        log-shipper.deckhouse.io/exclude: "true"
```

{% endraw %}
